

This model is from the article:  
** Interlinked mutual inhibitory positive feedbacks induce robust cellular memory effects. **   
Kim TH, Jung SH, Cho KH _FEBS Lett._2007 Oct; 581(25)
[17892872](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17892872),  
**Abstract:**   
Mutual inhibitory positive feedback (MIPF), or double-negative feedback, is a
key regulatory motif of cellular memory with the capability of maintaining
switched states for transient stimuli. Such MIPFs are found in various
biological systems where they are interlinked in many cases despite a single
MIPF can still realize such a memory effect. An intriguing question then
arises about the advantage of interlinking MIPFs instead of exploiting an
isolated single MIPF to realize the memory effect. We have investigated the
advantages of interlinked MIPF systems through mathematical modeling and
computer simulations. Our results revealed that interlinking MIPFs expands the
parameter range of achieving the memory effect, or the memory region, thereby
making the system more robust to parameter perturbations. Moreover, the
minimal duration and amplitude of an external stimulus required for off-to-on
state transition are increased and, as a result, external noises can more
effectively be filtered out. Hence, interlinked MIPF systems can realize more
robust cellular memories with respect to both parameter perturbations and
external noises. Our study suggests that interlinked MIPF systems might be an
evolutionary consequence acquired for a more reliable memory effect by
enhancing robustness against noisy cellular environments.

**Note:** The model reproduces the simulation result for the symmetric model as depicted in Fig 3H of the paper. Model successfully tested on MathSBML

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2012 The BioModels.net Team.  
For more information see the [terms of
use](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/legal.html).  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

